set up the initial folder structure
search for the folder structures for nestjs projects
I will be following the modular structure
first start with setting up the database models and connections
Will be using sequelize for this


setted the models
then connected the db in config section
then made a module for db
then imported that module in main file of app.module.ts

Models are made in db and they are following the constraints as well. Now I will start writing the business logic for the application, and other things like validators, guards middlewares


npx sequelize migration:create --name add-some-table

will just generate a migration file, in path specified in .sequelizerc


const { resolve } = require('path');

module.exports = {
  config: resolve('src/config/sequelize.config.js'),
  'seeders-path': resolve('dist/database/seeders'),
  'migrations-path': resolve('dist/database/migrations'),
  'models-path': resolve('dist/database/models'),
};


actually this is important as now you have ts files and you have to consider js files so go for that dist folder

const { resolve } = require('path');

module.exports = {
  config: resolve('src/config/sequelize.config.js'),
  'seeders-path': resolve('src/database/seeders'),
  'migrations-path': resolve('src/database/migrations'),
  'models-path': resolve('dist/database/models'),
};

chnaged these to src as create migration and seeders in src directory then changes file extension and so again back to previou sequelizerc file.

npx sequelize-cli db:migrate  
npx sequelize-cli db:seed:all


Now start working on the business logic


Suggested Order of Development:
Modular Structure: Define the module structure for the app (UserModule, PostModule, CommentModule, etc.).
Controllers & Services: Create simple controllers and services for core features (CRUD operations, DB interactions).
Authentication: Set up authentication with JWT and implement login, registration, and protected routes.
Authorization & Guards: Add guards to secure routes based on user roles and permissions.
Typeguards & Validation: Ensure all request inputs are type-checked and validated.
Middlewares & Interceptors: Introduce middleware for logging, security, or request preprocessing. Use interceptors for cross-cutting concerns like response transformation and error handling.
This approach allows you to have a working version of the application quickly while maintaining the flexibility to scale and secure it progressively.


First start with user module keep in mind the flow of the applicationa as well, like how to write code
define the data transfer objects
define the service
define the controller
define the module
import that module in main module

so this is flow

Now add global error handling mechanism as well







See how to remove any from services
add your authmiddleware in main file as in app.module.ts specified in prompt, and then test, then add customized services and then further more things
see how and where you use APP_GUARD globally


Now add your custom needed services, then I will test frontend, then I will further look for improvements, like gurads Authorization


me request done
now implement get posts get myposts search posts search my posts also add that custom middleware apply and routing request based on filter param as in your prev backend


then move to comment part

then move to authorization part

then more


If you want to modify db schema without running migrations use 
await sequelize.sync({ alter: true });
other wise run migrations and do so


Ok so which concepts are covered so far
modules
providers
controllers
middlewares
pipes
guards
exception filters
migrations
seeders
sequelize
CRUD
customizable services according to the use cases


Now will add some authorization to frontend like this will be passing props and some button addition for seeing all the users etc. For sake of practice. Then will review the code and improve it.


What I am going to do:
Admin will be able to delete any post, admin will be able to see all users or make any user admin.
I have to think of way that I have to send information in jwt payload if someone is admin, and then ignore the checks there for matching userId just directly delete the post.


Now I will be doing some work on frontend
frontend done now will add some sort of backend for that

1- send in a get request (name, email, role, number of posts)
2- use that update user request to be used by admin only to update the role.





Covert that jwt util to class based at the end








Shifting to TypeORM, basic setup done, created a dataSource file, then added scripts in package.json, make a database module, use that module in app module

created migrations
generated migrations
run migrations


Migration runs without NestJS runtime. NestJS will use app.module.ts database connection and migration will use dataSource.ts

Now check with nestjs runtime


Now all app is working
Now come to email verification (remember to generate new migration at the end)


Add new columns in db



All done what was required, so now will go through the code and study the concepts from documentation, internet, articles etc.